hello everyone welcome this is go I PFS
you were here for the last one awesome
basically what we're doing today instead
of having the normal hangouts or
generally don't know what he's doing or
David or whatever we're going to be
going through specific roadmaps we
developed over the past week or so at
the workshop and elsewhere this will not
be seen on get up on the PM Rafael in
the fs organization um if you look at
the sprint issue / today issue number
130 you'll see a link to it as well as
link to computer pad and basically what
we're going to be doing is going through
this roadmap we have the next couple
months or so and look at like whether or
not it matches up with our design for
the future and what we want to do about
it so I'm gonna let Emily and why are
you sleeping for most of this if
you have any question feel free to throw
them on IRC and I will look at them
Henderson and otherwise thank you very
much for watching and uh Emily I think
you want to take away how it's going to
go well Jeremy if you want to review the
roadmap that we have very cool and you
can also talk about the outstanding
excuse me you two and what all needs to
be added to the roadmap alright cool so
on the issue we have same for end of
July pre q3 we wanted to ship both the
fso 43 wanted to have sharding for sure
and then there's some other things on
there which I don't know why they're put
on pre q3 I think that was a mistake I
don't think that was written up but as
far as shipping 0 for 3 we have some UX
issues that we are waiting on we got the
release candidate out which is good and
we've identified and fixed a few bugs
all ready for that the second release
candidate should be out probably an ad
in the day or two um down to chardon um
we well I've got some good working on
that given I have enough time this week
I will be able to have that done and a
pull request out for that this week
that's going to be post for three just
so we can not push a not quite tested
feature out into
really so quickly past that we don't
have anything that we scheduled through
the first week of August which is great
because all the stuff romantic July is
going to be first week of August second
week of August we want to ship interbay
shins JSI PFS but i'm not sure well it
is there were some scrabble arabs and
taking it down from the wall um issues
that we had and onto this thing so much
you not have the clearest handwriting
might be a good idea to actually take
this issue and put it in the etherpad
and edit it directly should we do that
that's probably a good idea yeah
although I'll do that give me one second
okay um so one of those checkboxes does
not get the public key from sekai oh and
the second is web sockets um not getting
the public keep in sec I oh I think is
not something that we're going to worry
about because we want um yeah kuba
that's so we want to be able to
implement Sakai Oh Friedel was working
on that so we don't have to worry about
that because we don't have any
interoperability between the two without
sec I Oh in the first place so it's kind
of no point there the second bit is web
sockets and I have this working just
need to get it merged and tested as with
everything past that multiple protocol
version handling one to bead and I made
some good progress on how exactly we're
going to do this um the other night and
so we have that figured out it should be
pretty easy to implement and I think
we'll probably be able to make at least
that part second week of August and then
we have a data store too many file
descriptor fixes which actually get done
so I'm going to check those boxes right
now week 3 we want to have multi codecs
implemented um this is Milwaukee the pad
instead of on the on github did you post
a pen yep cool stenography and in the
side chat bar here
and on the expenditure I'm looking for
it on that you do it okay there we go so
we can actually hit its ok cool thanks
hmm all right so yeah multi codecs
implemented this is um going to change
to to be not just multi codecs
implemented but we also need to
implement well first we need to decide
on our content ids spec as far as the
changes for IPL deep adding that we
discussed and i think one just posted an
issue to discuss this see if i can find
that real quick and post that here
because it's relevant cool yeah so
that's this 1-2 issue comment going
there so we need to figure out and
implement the multi codecs and the cid
be one as long as calling it that's
gonna probably take a bit more time I
don't know how like the overall timeline
and that's gonna work because
many ship intubation was actually
shipping to grace into tears at the fs
integration cool alright so yeah
implementing kids see IDs be one is
going to be good then we have
benchmarking setup so automated sweet on
Team city as well as benchmarks across
the entire API space so this is going to
be this is going to be dependent on kuba
for the most part I'm gonna be able to
help out a bit but I will be busy so
kuba how do you how likely do you think
in this will be should we move try to
move this back or is you also were going
on like I'm work no symbol t ash right
yeah I have first like i like i have the
first mmm Pete like it's ready I have
got a few tests and it's ready for a
review by people i have the basic
implementation done absolutely ash so i
can start working the benchmarking
platform and yeah okay keep in mind that
there are other goals that were working
here now I know okay so I find you can
buy you selling looking benchmarking is
not a priority um it is quite a priority
they're usually decided to search by the
team yeah it's it's fairly perfect we
have like it's blogger for many PRS so
it now like at least three PR super
block currently because we don't know if
they are beneficial or not yeah so week
3 or week 4 we also have it on September
week one by accident as a duplication so
ah interesting let's just put move it to
week four and duplicate that okay as
well have better metrics
as part of week four but metrics are not
connected fetch barking any in any way
that resists next think I blew some tile
also will be working on such me eyes
open oh so um that's that we have
extracting gateway to its own tool using
kar di it was sloshed this job this is a
large thing when Lars complex yeah does
anybody know when Lars is getting back
Howley's two weeks thank you kidding me
too I'm not 22 hold on cover he took
three weeks so the 23rd is when you're
finally getting back so we'll have the
last week of August the drive finishes
okay I'm looking to do it a hundred cool
yeah let's leave it there for now we can
always move it back later when he gets
back Nicole better metrics um we should
one of the to do some here is but if I
better means so let's figure out what we
want to do as far as improving our
metrics whether that's more integrated I
PFS things or get a response timing and
such stuff cool sep tember week 1 i've
killed glory Jeremy since we have August
can we touch base about the outstanding
items to see if there's anything else
that needs to be added for August um
meaning meaning
we're all out of the gate pad at the top
we had a list of things from the 2006
cute redock that we reviewed um things
that were not completed which it looks
like somebody already went in and add
some check marks it's at the bottom of
the eighth pad so it has a list of go I
can't fess bug fixes reduce idle
bandwidth usage net travelers whole six
memory leaks improve testing for 0.40
what yeah um so I mean testing that's so
the third um the bug fixes are all
complete enough to be no longer
prioritized all right um we none of
those got prioritized during the meeting
I'm not super concerned with them other
than reduced idle bandwidth usage which
we was brought up and we decided that I
pld was more important than that we're
completely profit not during it well
it's it's going to be on the long list
but it's not to be on the short list
which is what we're going over right now
okay um so what about under the
improvement yeah under improvements up
testing yeah I mean we always need to
get better at testing that's kind of
need we should probably quantify what is
meant there
you fit expo up our PT on this this
actually means is intended swap has on
quests we talked about this the other
night and we came up with something
basically there are some bugs in bit
swap that mean fix alongside this and o
speakin o much here's one so we need to
basically have a request ID for each
list entry and that needs to be sent
back and forth and then use when we're
sending lots of people to make sure that
we keep track of them and can hash
things properly so thats kind of
alongside the bits false paths changes
because we're gonna have to change that
all at the same time when we change the
protocol that is that's priority for out
I pld because we're going to need these
changes for the a pld integration
probably past that improve this
performance this is blocked on metric or
the benchmarks so much parking needs to
happen then we can do that eating too
maybe I potranco progress and stats um
yeah we need to let's see you mate
outline use cases and expected so when
should that be slated for about August
thing or QP roughly q3 that's something
we've want
it could be october note and use this is
nice for myself and others well that's
the snowed versus app no problem this is
another one in the lungs where we need
to define these cases and like what
means it's best sharding um this is
already slated drop that I mean resource
limits um yeah resource limits that's a
thing need to work on but is not been
slated for q3 so storage limits
shouldn't take too long we can probably
throw that one in September somewhere
memory limits is really hard bandwidth
limits have hard performance issues or
if we start the meeting then Witten we
have to worry about limiting different
protocols versus other protocols and you
know one protocol choking the others out
blah blah blah which gets difficult to
do hmm so that's those that review thing
alright so none of those affect the
timelines for august's no other than
what I just removed of the interspace
sharding what is already in the August
yeah cool now so I pld blocks for
integration um this is going to require
the content ID stuff to be finalized and
implanted leave
with Michelle since with listing multi
codex wait-listed multi codex twice in
August week three and in September with
one which we did so quick one that
depends one how long do you think the
content ID bug shedding is going to take
the question and I just shipped us back
that's what I was wearing this what I
just wish that's uh we'll see I think if
the initial review comes back positive
then we can move pretty quickly and
being a short news like oh my god this
is insane then it might take longer yeah
ok let's often let's realistically leave
it in September week one so let's remove
let's yeah remove it from August week
three let's leave obviously 3d more
blank you have had it in August week
three on the board for those in the
lower section we did Frank say that
again you're rather than august week
three on the board last week ok cool
yeah that's weak on a September ok sep
tember week two should grab us 0 for 4
that is a dork um should it be ship 0
for 4 or shape RC one yeah let's let's
say the RC there and then because
basically the whole reason for this one
is to have a fifth unix of s charting
that's our core like thing we want in
that release and it shouldn't be a huge
release we shouldn't have too much stuff
in it so it shouldn't be too hard to get
through and I think that's realistic
honestly um cool now September week
three here comes the fun stuff we want
to buy September week 3 be done with our
code coverage push this means across
all of our goat repos we have over 80%
code coverage on all packages i have in
my goals thing that I'm formulating and
going to post as a Captain's Log update
a very large list of every single
package that that implies so I'm going
to put that and then we're going to go
through and it'd be nice if we could
figure out how to automate this and so I
think part of the part of this goal is
figure out how to automate code coverage
across all of our repos and maybe even
have a dashboard forward on a project
repost pager something who knows but it
would be nice to clift simply click in
other languages who would have just
badge yeah see I so coveralls does it's
a badge so for going today yeah for go
so we need to figure out cover all stuff
a couple of our repos have cover i'll
set up but i don't know if it works so
we'll look into that and that'd be
really cool to have like coveralls for
all of our egos what this means though
is that we want it done on September
week 3 which means that it has to be in
progress through the last six weeks
before their that's going to be roughly
three or not it's gonna be like five
repos um completed a week which
estimating is going to be 20 hours worth
of work per week which is a lot um it's
probably probably less than 20 but
that's just kind of a little closer than
other people to be okay with that yes
and this is something that can be easily
shelled out to any contributor so I'm
not super worried yeah you can do
Richard you could go test so I'm not
super worried about making it a deadline
because yeah it's something really easy
to ship and push to other people
ship complete go I PFS API we need to
find so we can either take this over
more ourselves which is going to be a
fair time investment or we need to
source the community to find somebody
who's willing to take a more ownership
on this either way we want to have this
complete documented nicely have all the
API calls implemented and actually have
tests we don't want that for this right
now next up a go / / typing I think this
is yours I finis yeah um so we want
better performance yes right now the
performance I think people complaining
about performance on publishes and
people saying it fixed from 10 to 30
seconds on publish the results times
have been pretty fast talking to people
who use it it isn't like event in this
resolve time with a local cache the
investigation is around every time a few
tens of milliseconds so that's that is
selfish you need to work on because it
is for every request a few tens of
milliseconds yes resulting name that's
better than a second oh no that's that's
bns DNA only DNS based I penis not I
pianet not the HD base of my penis yeah
I'm talking about the HD basis in HD and
it's I was getting tired so it's couple
of seconds yes yeah so that's not the
huge bottleneck it actually gets really
fast when you're fully connected and
have made queries previously so I it's
not priority to fix this all time but it
should be priority to improve published
I'm so look into that the other thing I
want to start doing is I want to use I
pns for one of our websites
we should start thinking about a
candidate for this should be a website
that is used with some frequency but not
horribly bad if something goes wrong for
a few minutes obviously we don't want
anything failed but we're testing out a
feature that we haven't put a lot of
pressure and you know time on so maybe
with Richard you know soju doesn't make
a make an alias to dis da visit I oh
that's like this too or something and
then use that for builds and stuff and
so download stuff from there yes a
mirror of the regular dist but it uses
it go throughout the MS well then you
can see whenever it fails which is the
NCI yeah that works then we random
failures in CI which is something we
really don't want which will get idea
aspect really fast yep yeah cool so yeah
let's that's a good idea let's do that
we also want to have integration testing
which putting using a pianist for our
discs page for her see I would that's a
level of integration testing I think so
that would be you know two birds with
one stone their reliability let's try
that front of file descriptors this is a
hard problem because there's many layers
with Norma to file file descriptors at
each of them handles the issue
differently the block store or flat if s
right now handles it very well it has
kind of an exponential back-off to retry
putting block so the worst thing that
happens when you run out of file
descriptors with flat FS is it will just
get slow until the JavaScript or
pressure is alleviated leveldb will fail
to put which kind of sucks because it
does throw that to the upper layers and
causes whatever operations we were doing
there to fail we might want to try
handling that better like catch that an
error from of the be in
try or something then the other one is
in lib p2p when we're dialing out that's
hard because there's two different ways
is it can fail when we're dining out
which we can handle just by trying to
dial again handling their butt on the
listening side if somebody tries to
connect to us and ratified the
scriptures then that just sales and we
don't really get a clear idea of if it
like when that happens pretty sure that
listen will not return an error if
somebody tries to dial us and we can't
accept due to file descriptors cool IPL
d-block store integration this was
somewhere else already thought yeah
that's in September week one so it looks
well um right sharding data sheets but
um does anybody know what this one
refers to I'm looking so just move on to
different one okay the September week
for shift go at the fso 44 yeah that
sounds right um Wow and then to their
next week we're going to ship the 50 rc1
cool um I don't think that's super
realistic we can try um it really
depends on how all of this goes but
there's no there's no green for slack
here so you have your shipping go I PFS
05 and week 4 so when would be realistic
to do the 05 RCL 10 if you're gonna meet
the ship date of week for 405
realistically we should
it's really going to pend how all of the
rest of sep tember goes and if we're
able to meet the IPL d-block store
changes and implement go I pld which
isn't actually on this list as far as I
can see and it's kind of a hard
requirement for implementing I pld and
shipping the RC 1 so we need to have
like back here I can't find the card off
with the poor so little bit about go IPL
be that needs to happen but that also
depends shipping go I pld I believe
depends on the content IDs stuff so
realest means this has to go after multi
codex get implemented so Richard one of
the parts it would be at the bottom of
the board that can sweet hardcore yeah I
couldn't see it there I look I Pia I
thief as I pld right starting data sheet
helps give my friend
oh yeah I see it now I still know that
means I'm sorry I talk it is filling her
regarding the sheets I think it's
probably writing up how we choose to
shard things into a data structure okay
maybe like basically describing how i
have to do the charting so that other
implementations can can do the same
thing okay oh I'm not sure that this is
what comes to mind do you now almost ten
minutes over yeah that's sorry so um
well you guys were talking about that I
moved I pld blocks or integration back
two weeks to sep tember week three
because it depends on go I pld in go I
pld depends on having the multi codex
Content ID stuff finished so I move
those to give us a week of time for each
which is generous or not that's kind of
like Titan but we'll see I'm sure to
mention this earlier the bowls denoted
here and mark down by two asterisks it's
on our main priorities for those
sessions so well everything else to be
on there like the bowls what we already
decided like this needs to happen you
want to keep running through this or is
this enough to go from for now we can
revisit in a couple weeks yeah I guess
we should probably revisit this in a
couple of weeks because we'll have a
better idea of timelines well then we're
hunting one thing worth mentioning is
that if something runs late to building
some buffering into the schedule so that
if something goes late in one week it
can be picked up in the next one without
removing anything critical for that week
otherwise the whole thing's gonna start
sliding and that's not very great
that's what I'm trying to push things
back for it also be good to remember at
the beginning of the pre q3 section that
I could be moved to August week one if
we haven't finished any of those hit
doesn't look what we have like you said
that none of it needs to be carried over
okay not not not the q2 stuff but the
stuff we had slated for Pete Creek you
three yeah the very top probably not
this week one yeah brah see this stuff
was not part of that so this is homeless
stuff I just put that back there because
it's almost we put a bottom to a girl to
do yeah looks like ok so actually
missing sense so those were three orphan
cards they were just at the bottom of
the board they weren't slated for any
schedule so we can figure out where
those belong now that because or where
do you think that they would fit in this
schedule so there were cards that were
written but we're an assigned a timeline
if you didn't hit anything more ok um ok
then we have October for getting all of
IPL d done and chipped which one point
out that the notes for the performance
task was the performance will be
performing Lee performance and I don't
go close by beautiful is there anything
else going to cover in this call not
necessarily know I already way over time
so we should probably it was ok it's
just I filled in accident so that we
want to note that we want to release our
see every week through October because I
think we will need for our seas will
probably end up with for our seas
and we should just try keep trying to
writing it make sure we release our see
every week that sounds good to me as
long as it's not like like it's I think
it's better than more RCS and more
testing before it actually something
it's the best release of having been
awesome um so yeah I think you should
note that cool well that's that thing
that's good enough for now we should
probably get to talking about a guildie
for us all right thank you everyone
sorry this was kind of a technical talk
about schedule what was all useful um
Emmaline or yeah Emily do you want to
take these notes and put them on the
issue um and split them for I can do
that now by the way I feel D you got it
want me to do if you could do it very
great hold it okay thank you and you
have any questions feel free to ping
them at me and I will give a canister as
possible otherwise have a good day and
we'll see you all next week unless
you're going I pld see ya